The Project Gutenberg eBook of Star Book No. 220: Babies Are Such Fun to
Dress, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Star Book No. 220: Babies Are Such Fun to Dress
       Knit and Crochet

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: September 11, 2021 [eBook #66272]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 220: BABIES ARE SUCH
FUN TO DRESS ***




                                                                     35¢




                           STAR BOOK No. 220
                    _Babies_ ARE SUCH _Fun_ TO DRESS


                       SIZES 6 MONTHS to 4 YEARS


                            _Knit & Crochet_

                            american thread

    [Illustration: american thread
    HIGH RIDGE PARK, STAMFORD, CONN. 06905]

                                                       PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                          Say it with Daisies


                          PUFF STITCH BABY SET

  Size: 6-9 months
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN”[1] ORLON or
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN
  7—1 oz. skeins White
  Plastic Crochet Hook Sizes F and G OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT
          IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE for F hook: 5 sts = 1 inch;
  GAUGE for G hook: 2 patterns = 1 inch


                                 SACQUE

Starting at neck edge with F hook, ch 81, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c
in each remaining st of ch, ch 3, turn—80 sc. 2nd ROW (right side): Ch
3, counts as 1 d c, 1 d c in each of next 12 s c for Front, 3 d c in
next s c (inc point), 1 d c in each of next 12 s c for Sleeve, 3 d c in
next s c (inc point), 1 d c in each of next 26 d c for Back, 3 d c in
next s c (inc point), 1 d c in each of next 12 s c for other Sleeve, 3 d
c in next s c (inc point), 1 d c in each remaining 13 s c for other
Front, ch 1, turn. 3rd ROW: 1 s c in each d c working 5 s c in center d
c at each of the 4 inc points, ch 3, turn. 4th ROW: 1 d c in each s c
working 3 d c in center s c at each of the 4 inc points, ch 1, turn.
Repeat last 2 rows 3 times—184 d c. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in each of next 27
sts for Front, ch 5 for underarm, skip next 38 sts for Sleeve, 1 s c in
each of next 54 sts for Back, ch 5 for other underarm, skip next 38 sts
for other Sleeve, 1 s c in each remaining 27 sts for other Front, ch 1,
turn. START PATTERN: Change to G hook. NEXT ROW (right side): Work 1 s
c, 1 puff st in 1st s c (pattern), (puff st: * yo hook, insert in st,
pull yarn through, repeat from * once, yo hook and pull through all
loops at one time), * skip next 2 sts, s c, puff st in next st, repeat
from * across row ending with s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 2nd ROW: S c,
puff st in 1st s c, * s c, puff st in next s c, repeat from * across row
ending with s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat last row for pattern
until work measures 6 inches from underarm, ending on right side of
sacque (right side of d c row is right side of work), cut yarn.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

                                             _continuation from page 18_

SLEEVES: With G hook, attach yarn in center st of ch at underarm, work 1
pattern (s c and puff st) in same space, * skip 2 sts, work 1 pattern in
next st, repeat from * across row ending with s c in same space with 1st
s c, join, ch 1, turn—(15 puff sts). Work even in pattern joining and
turning each round until sleeve measures 4¾ inches from underarm ending
on right side of work, join, ch 3, turn. BEADING: 1 d c in same space, *
2 d c in next s c, repeat from * all around, join, turn. NEXT ROUND: *
Ch 4, sl st between next 2 d c group, repeat from * all around, cut
yarn. Work other sleeve in same manner. NECK EDGE: BEADING: With wrong
side of 1st row of neck edge facing, attach yarn in 1st st of starting
ch, ch 3, d c in same space, * skip 1 st, 2 d c in next st, repeat from
* across row ending to correspond, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch 1, sl st between 2
d c group, * ch 4, sl st in next d c group, repeat from * across neck
edge, then work edge all around sacque working in every other row along
side of each front and in each s c of pattern along lower edge, join,
cut yarn.

TIES: With F hook and 2 strands of yarn, work a ch about 36 inches long
and lace through beading at neck edge. Work 2 chains 16 inches long and
lace through beading at sleeve edge, tying in a bow at top.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                                  HAT

With F hook, ch 2, 8 s c in 2nd st from hook, join in 1st s c, turn. 2nd
ROUND: Ch 3, d c in same space, 2 d c in each s c all around, join, ch
1, turn—16 d c. 3rd ROUND: * 1 s c in next d c, 2 s c in next d c,
repeat from * all around, join—24 s c. NEXT 5 ROUNDS: Alternating rounds
work 1 round in d c, 1 round in s c, inc 1 st in each of the 8 inc
points having 1 more st between incs in each round, join, do not turn—64
sts. START PATTERN: With G hook, work 1 s c, 1 puff st (pattern) in 1st
d c, skip 1 d c, * work a pattern in next d c, skip 1 d c, repeat from *
all around, join, ch 1, turn—32 patterns. Continue in pattern joining
and turning each round until pattern section measures 5 inches, ending
on right side, turn. NEXT ROUND: * ch 4, sl st in next s c, repeat from
* all around, cut yarn. Fold back 6 rounds to form cuff. EARLAPS: Skip 5
patterns from center back, attach yarn in base of s c of next pattern,
work a pattern in same space, work a pattern in base of s c of next 5
patterns, ch 1, turn. 2nd ROW: Skip 1st s c (a dec), work a pattern in
each of the next 4 s c, s c in next s c, ch 1, turn. 3rd ROW: Work 4
patterns, s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 4th ROW: Skip 1st s c, work 3
patterns, s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 5th ROW: Work 3 patterns, s c in
last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat last 2 rows twice, having 1 less pattern in
each even row, cut yarn. Skip next 10 patterns, attach yarn in base of s
c of next pattern and work other earlap in same manner. Attach yarn at
edge of earlap and work an 8 inch ch in each earlap for ties. Knot ends.

POMPONS: (Make 3). Wind yarn over a 2 inch cardboard 60 times. Slip off
cardboard, tie at center, cut both ends and trim into shape. Tie at top
of hat as illustrated.


                                BOOTIES

With F hook, ch 38, 1 s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining
st of ch, join in 1st s c being careful not to twist ch, ch 3, turn. 2nd
ROUND: 1 d c in each s c, ch 1, turn. NEXT 5 ROUNDS: Work even
alternating each s c and d c rounds same as sacque, joining and turning
each round, do not cut yarn. Fold work in half, weave 7 sts at opposite
end for instep, weave sts tog at lower edge. UPPER SECTION—BEADING: Ch
3, d c in same space, * skip 1 st, 2 d c in next st, repeat from * all
around—24 d c, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROUND: With G hook, work a pattern in
every other d c. NEXT 4 ROUNDS: Work even in pattern, then work edge
same as sacque. With 2 strands, work a ch 13 inches long and lace
through beading. Knot ends.


                                MITTENS

With F hook, ch 25 to measure about 4¾ inches, join being careful not to
twist ch, ch 1, 1 s c in each st of ch, turn—25 s c. NEXT ROUND: Ch 3
(counts as 1st d c), 1 d c in each s c, ch 1, turn. NEXT 5 ROUNDS: Work
even alternating s c and d c rounds, joining and turning each round.
NEXT ROUND: 1 d c in each of next 3 sts, dec in next 2 sts (to dec: * yo
hook, insert hook in next st, pull yarn through, yo hook and work off 2
loops, repeat from * once, yo and work off all loops at one time),
repeat from beg all around, ch 1, turn—20 sts. NEXT ROUND: 1 s c in each
d c, ch 3, turn. NEXT 2 ROUNDS: Work 2 sts tog in each round (5 sts
remain), cut yarn leaving a 4 inch length. Thread into a blunt needle
and draw sts tog, cut yarn. CUFF: With wrong side of s c round at top
facing, attach yarn in opposite side of starting ch at joining, ch 3, d
c in same space, * skip 1 st, 2 d c in next st, repeat from * all
around, join, ch 1, turn—26 d c. NEXT 3 ROUNDS: With G hook, work in
pattern working a pattern in every other d c in 1st round, joining and
turning each round. Then work edge same as sacque, cut yarn. With 2
strands, work a ch 13 inches long and lace through beading. Knot ends.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                       Ain’t She Sweet (So’s He)


                      PINK & WHITE SWEATER & BERET

  Sizes: 2 and 4 years
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” KNITTING WORSTED SIZE
  2 (2)—2 oz. skeins White and
  DAWN “WINTUK” SPORT YARN SIZE
  2 (2)—2 oz. skeins Pink
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 and No. 6 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
          RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  ½ yd. 1 inch wide Grosgrain Ribbon
  5 Buttons
  GAUGE for No. 6 needles: 6 pattern sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 2. Changes for size 4 given in
parentheses.

BACK: With Pink and No. 6 needles, cast on 66 (72) sts. Work in K 1, P 1
ribbing for 5 rows for hem. START PATTERN: 1st ROW (right side): K
across row. 2nd ROW: P across row, drop Pink. 3rd and 4th ROWS: With
White, * K 1, yo, K 2 tog, repeat from * across row, drop White, pick up
Pink. Repeat these 4 rows for pattern. Work even until 7 (8) inches from
beg ending with 2nd pattern row. SHAPE ARMHOLES: Bind off 5 sts at beg
of next 2 rows. NEXT ROW: Work even in pattern. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at
beg and end of row. Work even in pattern until 4½ (5) inches above beg
of armhole shaping ending with 4th pattern row. SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind
off 8 (9) sts at beg of next 4 rows—22 (24) sts. Bind off.

LEFT FRONT: Cast on 33 (36) sts. Work same as back to underarm ending
with 2nd pattern row. SHAPE ARMHOLE: Work same as Back. Work even in
pattern until armhole measures 2 (2½) inches ending with 1st pattern row
at front edge. SHAPE NECK: Dec 1 st at neck edge every 1st and 2nd
pattern rows 11 (12) times—16 (18) sts. Work even until armhole measures
same as on back ending with same row. Shape shoulder same as Back.

RIGHT FRONT: Work same as left front reversing shaping.

SLEEVES: With Pink and No. 4 needles cast on 33 (36) sts. Work ribbing
same as back. Change to No. 6 needles and work in pattern, inc 1 st each
side every 8th row 9 times working added sts in pattern—51 (54) sts.
Work even until sleeve measures 9 (10) inches from beg, or desired
length to underarm ending with 2nd pattern row. SHAPE CAP: Bind off 5
sts at beg of next 2 rows. Dec 1 st each side every row 8 times. Bind
off 2 sts at beg of next 6 rows. Bind off remaining sts.

LEFT FRONT BAND: With Pink and No. 4 needles, cast on 9 sts. Work in K
1, P 1 ribbing until band fits along front edge, starting at beg of
pattern to beg of neck shaping. Bind off. Mark front for 5 evenly spaced
buttons.

RIGHT FRONT BAND: Work same as left front band working buttonholes to
correspond to markers. BUTTONHOLES: Work 3 sts, bind off 3 sts, work
across. On next row cast on 3 sts over bound-off sts.

COLLAR: With Pink and No. 4 needles cast on 139 (143) sts. Work in K 1,
P 1 ribbing for 2 inches. Bind off 3 sts at beg of every row until
collar measures 3 inches from beg. Bind off remaining sts.

FINISHING: Sew shoulder seams. Sew sleeves in position. Sew side and
sleeve seams. Turn up hem at lower edge and sew in place. Sew front
bands in place. Sew shaped edge of collar around neck edge, and each
short edge to top of front band leaving ½ inch free from front edge. Sew
grosgrain ribbon to wrong side of front bands. Cut buttonholes in
ribbon. Work buttonhole sts around buttonholes. Sew buttons in position.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                                 BERET

With Pink and No. 4 needles cast on, 86 (92) sts. Work in K 1, P 1
ribbing for 5 rows inc 28 (28) sts evenly spaced in last row of
ribbing—114 (120) sts. Change to No. 6 needles, and work in pattern same
as sweater for 3¼ inches ending with 4th pattern row. 1st DEC ROW:
Working in pattern * K 2 tog, K 17 (18), repeat from * across row—6 sts
dec. 2nd DEC ROW: * P 16 (17), P 2 tog, repeat from * across row—102
(108) sts. NEXT 2 ROWS: Work even in pattern. Repeat these 4 rows having
1 st less between each dec in each dec row until there are 18 (24) sts
left ending with 2nd pattern row. Cut yarn leaving a 10 inch length.
Thread into needle and draw remaining sts tog. Fasten tightly. Sew seam.
POMPON: Wind Pink 100 times over a 2 inch cardboard, slip off cardboard,
tie in center, cut both ends, and trim into shape. Sew to top of beret.


                         BOY’S SWEATER AND CAP
                         DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 22




                            A Fable in Cable


                                BABY SET

  Size: 6 months to 9 months
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN or
  “DAWN” ORLON
  6-1 oz. skeins Baby Blue
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  1 Set of Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 2
  6 Buttons
  1½ yds. narrow ribbon
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 1 inch (seed st)


                                SWEATER

BACK: Cast on 77 sts. 1st ROW: K 1, * P 1, K 1, repeat from * across
row. Repeat 1st row 6 times (seed st). START PATTERN: 1st ROW (right
side): Work 3 sts in seed st, * P 2, K 4, P 2, K 1, repeat from * 6
times, P 2, K 4, P 2, 3 seed sts. 2nd ROW: 3 seed sts, * K 2, P 4, K 2,
work 5 sts in next st as follows: K 1, yo, K 1, yo, K 1, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2, P 4, K 2, 3 seed sts. 3rd ROW: 3 seed sts, P
2, Sl next 2 sts to dpn and hold in front of work, K next 2 sts, K 2 sts
from dpn (cable), P 2, * K 2 sts tog through back of sts, yo, K 1, yo, K
2 tog, P 2, cable over next 4 sts, P 2, repeat from * across row ending
with 3 seed sts. 4th ROW: 3 seed sts, K 2, P 4, K 2, * P 5, K 2, P 4, K
2, repeat from * across row ending with 3 seed sts. 5th ROW: 3 seed sts,
P 2, K 4, P 2, * K 2 tog through back of sts, yo, K 1, yo, K 2 tog, P 2,
K 4, P 2, repeat from * across row ending with 3 seed sts. 6th ROW: Same
as 4th row. 7th ROW: Same as 3rd row. 8th ROW: 3 seed sts, K 2, P 4, K
2, *P 1, P 3 tog, P 1, K 2, P 4, K 2, repeat from * across row ending
with 3 seed sts. 9th ROW: 3 seed sts, P 2, K 4, P 2, * sl 1, K 2 tog,
p.s.s.o., P 2, K 4, P 2, repeat from * across row ending with 3 seed
sts. Repeat from 2nd through 9th rows for pattern. Work even in pattern
until 6 inches from beg ending on wrong side.

SHAPE ARMHOLES: Bind off 4 sts at beg of next 2 rows. Keeping continuity
of pattern work even until armholes measure 3½ inches ending with 9th
pattern row.

SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 19 sts, place next 31 sts on holder, bind off
remaining sts.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

                                             _continuation from page 14_

LEFT FRONT: Cast on 46 sts. 1st ROW: * K 1, P 1, repeat from * across
row. Repeat 1st row 6 times (seed st). START PATTERN: 1st ROW (right
side): 3 seed sts, P 2, K 4, P 2, * K 1, P 2, K 4, P 2, repeat from *
twice, work 8 sts in seed st for front border. Work in pattern as
established working 8 border sts in seed st throughout until front
measures same as back to underarm ending at armhole edge. SHAPE ARMHOLE:
Bind off 4 sts at armhole edge. Keeping continuity of pattern work even
until armhole measures 2½ inches ending with 9th pattern row. Cut yarn.
SHAPE NECK: Beg at neck edge, place 17 sts on holder, continue in
pattern dec 2 sts at neck edge every other row 3 times—19 sts. Work even
until armholes measure same as back ending with 9th pattern row. SHAPE
SHOULDER: Bind off 19 sts. Mark position for 5 buttons evenly spaced on
left front edge, 1st buttonhole ¾ inch above lower edge, and the last
buttonhole ¾ inch below neck edge.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

RIGHT FRONT: Work same as left front reversing shaping and working
buttonholes opposite markers.

BUTTONHOLES: Work 3 sts, bind off next 2 sts, work across. On next row
cast on 2 sts over bound-off sts.

FINISHING: Sew shoulder and side seams.

NECKBAND: With right side facing, pick up 71 sts including sts on
holders. Work 8 rows in seed st, working 1 buttonhole in 4th row. Bind
off. Sew buttons in place.

SLEEVES: Cast on 45 sts. Work in seed st for 7 rows inc 10 sts evenly
spaced across last row—55 sts. START PATTERN: 1st ROW (right side): K 1,
* P 2, K 4, P 2, K 1, repeat from * across row. 2nd ROW: P 1, K 2, P 4,
* K 2, work 5 sts in next st, K 2, P 4, repeat from * across row ending
with K 2, P 1. Work in pattern as established on sweater working first
and last sts in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) until there are 8
complete patterns ending with 9th pattern row. Bind off. Sew sleeves in
position sewing ½ inch of upper sleeve seams to bound-off sts of
underarm. Sew sleeve seams.


                                  HAT

Cast on 91 sts, and work 11 rows in seed st. Work in pattern same as
sleeve until 7 patterns are completed. Bind off.

FINISHING: Steam and block. Fold in half, and sew back seam along
bound-off edge. Fold seed st border to right side, and working through
double thicknesses at border section, pick up and K 62 sts across neck
edge. Work 3 rows in seed st.

BEADING: K 1, * P 2 tog, yo, P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. Work
next 2 rows in seed st. Bind off in seed st. Lace ribbon through
beading.


                                BOOTIES

Cast on 55 sts, and work in seed st for 2 inches. NEXT ROW: Work in seed
st across 18 sts, bind off next 18 sts, work in seed st to end of row.
NEXT 2 ROWS: Work in seed st across 37 sts. BEADING: K 1, * yo, K 2 tog,
K 1, repeat from * across row. Work 2 complete patterns same as sleeve.
Bind off. Sew instep across bound-off sts. Sew back seam and lower edge.
Lace ribbon through beading.


                                MITTENS

Cast on 46 sts. P 1 row; then work 9 rows in pattern same as sleeve.
NEXT ROW: P, dec 9 sts evenly spaced across row.

BEADING: Work same as booties. Work in seed st for 2¾ inches. NEXT ROW:
K 2 tog across row ending with K 1. Cut yarn leaving an 8 inch length.
Thread into needle and draw through sts. Sew side seam. Lace ribbon
through beading.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                            PINK BABY SACQUE

    [Illustration: _as seen on our cover_]

  Size: 6 months to 1 year
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN or
  “DAWN” NYLON
  4-1 oz. skeins Baby Pink
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size E
  GAUGE: 8 sts = 1 inch

Starting at neckline cast on 154 sts.

1st ROW (right side): K 1, P 2, * yarn in back, sl next st as if to P, K
1, p.s.s.o., yo, K 2, P 2, repeat from * across row ending with K 1. 2nd
ROW: K 3, * yarn in front, sl next st as if to K, P 1, p.s.s.o., yo, P
2, K 2, repeat from * across row ending with K 1. Repeat these 2 rows
for 1½ inches. NEXT ROW: Inc 2 sts in each P 2 rib across row. Work in
pattern for 1½ inches having 4 stockinette sts in each solid section.
NEXT ROW: Inc 2 sts in each P 4 rib across row. Continue in pattern
having 6 stockinette sts between yarn over sts until 4 inches from beg
ending on wrong side.

DIVIDE FOR BODY AND SLEEVES: Work in pattern across 1st 44 sts, cast on
10 sts for underarm, and place remaining sts on holder.

FRONT: Continuing in pattern, work on 54 sts for 6 inches. Bind off. Sl
next 50 sts to 2nd holder for sleeve.

BACK: Cast on 10 sts for underarm, work across next 70 sts from 1st
holder, cast on 10 sts at end of row—90 sts. Work even in pattern for 6
inches. Bind off. Sl next 50 sts to 3rd holder for other sleeve. Cast on
10 sts, and work across remaining 44 sts. 2nd FRONT: Work on these 54
sts for 6 inches. Bind off.

SLEEVES: Attach yarn at side edge of front underarm, pick up and K 10
sts across cast-on sts, work across 50 sts of sleeve, pick up and K 10
sts across cast-on sts of back underarm. Continue in pattern until
sleeve measures 5 inches from underarm, ending on wrong side.
Discontinue pattern. NEXT ROW: K across, dec 33 sts evenly spaced
across—37 sts. BEADING: P 1 row. NEXT ROW: * K 2, yo, K 2 tog, repeat
from * across row ending with K 1. Then P 1 row, K 1 row, P 1 row. PICOT
EDGE: K 1, * yo, K 2 tog, repeat from * across row. P 1 row. Bind off.

NECK EDGE: With right side facing, pick up and K 73 sts, and work
beading and Picot Edge same as on cuff.

FINISHING: Turn ½ inch of front band under at lower edge, and sew in
place tapering off toward neck edge. Turn Picot Edge at yo row and sew
in place. Work 1 row s c across lower edge. DRAW STRING FOR NECK: Ch
151, sl st in back of 2nd ch from hook, and in back of each ch across
row, cut yarn. FOR SLEEVES: Ch 76, and work same as for neck. POMPONS:
(Make 2) Wind yarn 60 times over 1½ inch cardboard. Slip off cardboard,
tie in center, cut both ends, trim into shape. Lace strings through
beading. Attach pompon at each end of neck strings.


                          BLUE AND WHITE DRESS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  Sizes: 2 and 4 years
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN or
  “DAWN” ORLON
  2 (3)—1 oz. skeins Baby Blue
  2 (2)—1 oz. skeins White
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size F OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  3 Buttons
  GAUGE: 2—7 d c shells = 3 inches
  Directions are given for size 2. Changes for size 4 given in
          parentheses.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

FRONT: With Baby Blue ch 62 (74), s c in 2nd st from hook, * skip 1 st
of ch, 2 d c in next st, 3 d c in next st, 2 d c in next st, skip next
st, s c in next st, repeat from * 9 (11) times, turn. 2nd ROW: Ch 3
(counts as 1 d c), 3 d c in 1st s c, * skip next 3 d c, s c in next d c,
skip next 3 d c, 7 d c in next s c (7 d c shell), repeat from * across
row ending with 4 d c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 3rd ROW: S c in 1st d c,
* 7 d c shell in next s c, s c in center d c of next shell, repeat from
* across row ending last repeat with s c in top of turning ch 3. 4th and
5th ROWS: Repeat 2nd and 3rd rows. 6th ROW: Ch 3, 2 d c in 1st s c, s c
in center d c of next shell, * 6 d c shell in next s c, s c in center d
c of next shell, repeat from * across row ending with 3 d c in last s c,
ch 1, turn. 7th ROW: S c in 1st d c, * 6 d c shell d c shell in next s
c, s c in space between the 2 center d c of next shell, repeat from *
across row ending last repeat with s c in top of turning ch.

                                             _continuation from page 20_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

8th ROW: Ch 3, 2 d c in 1st s c, s c in space between the 2 center d c
of next shell, * 6 d c shell in next s c, s c in space between the 2
center d c of next shell, repeat from * across row ending with 3 d c in
last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat 7th and 8th rows twice. 13th ROW: S c in
1st d c, * 5 d c shell in next s c, s c in space between the 2 center d
c of next shell, repeat from * across row ending with s c in top of
turning ch, turn. 14th ROW: Ch 3, 2 d c in 1st s c, * s c in center d c
of next shell, 5 d c shell in next s c, repeat from * across row ending
with 3 d c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 15th ROW: S c in 1st d c, 5 d c
shell in next s c, * s c in center d c of next shell, 5 d c shell in
next s c, repeat from * across row ending with s c in top of turning ch,
turn. Repeat 14th and 15th rows 3 times. 22nd ROW: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c,
s c in center d c of next shell, * 4 d c shell in next s c, s c in
center d c of next shell, repeat from * across row ending with 2 d c in
last s c, ch 1, turn. 23rd ROW: Working in 4 d c shells repeat 7th row.
24th ROW: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c, s c in space between the 2 center d c of
next shell, * 4 d c shell in next s c, s c in space between the 2 center
d c of next shell, repeat from * across row ending with 2 d c in last s
c, ch 1, turn. Repeat last 2 rows 2 (4) times, cut yarn, turn. SHAPE
ARMHOLES: Attach White in space between the 2 center d c of 1st shell, s
c in same space, work 4 d c shells across row to center of last shell,
ch 2, turn—8 (10) shells. NEXT ROW: S c in space between the 2 center d
c of next shell, * 4 d c shell in next s c, s c in space between the 2
center d c of next shell, repeat from * across row to last shell, turn—7
(9) shells. Continue in pattern working 4 d c shells, until there are 8
(10) White shell rows. SHAPE NECK and SHOULDER: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c,
work two 4 d c shells, s c in space between the 2 center d c of next
shell, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: Skip 1st s c, sl st in each of next 2 d c,
s c in next space, work two 4 d c shells across row, s c in top of
turning ch, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c, s c in center of next
shell, 4 d c shell in next s c, s c in center of next shell, 2 d c in
next s c, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: S c in 1st d c, 4 d c shell in next s c,
sl st in center of next shell, cut yarn. OTHER SHOULDER: With wrong side
of last long row facing, skip 1 (3) shells, attach yarn in center of
next shell, s c in same space, and work across in pattern, ch 1, turn.
NEXT ROW: Work 2 shells, s c in center of next shell, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch
3, d c in 1st s c, s c in center of next shell, shell in next s c, s c
in center of next shell, 2 d c in last s c, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: Sl st
to center of next shell, shell in next s c, s c in top of turning ch,
cut yarn.

BACK: Work same as front until there are 2 rows of White—7 (9) shells.

BACK OPENING: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c, work 3 (4) shells, s c in center of
next shell, turn. Work even in pattern until there are 11 (13) rows of
White, ending at neck edge. NEXT ROW: Sl st across 1st 9 (13) sts, shell
in next s c, sl st in center of next shell, cut yarn. Attach White at
center of back in st already worked in. Complete other half to
correspond, reversing shaping.

SLEEVES: With White ch 26 (30) loosely, s c in 2nd st from hook, * skip
next st of ch, 4 d c in next st, skip next st, s c in next st, repeat
from * across ch, turn. 2nd ROW: Ch 3, 2 d c in 1st s c, work 4 d c
shells across row, ending with 3 d c in last s c, ch 1, turn. 3rd ROW: S
c in 1st d c, work 4 d c shells across row, ending with s c in top of
turning ch, turn. 4th ROW: Ch 3, 3 d c in 1st s c, work 4 d c shells
across row, ending with 4 d c in last s c, turn. 5th ROW: Ch 3, d c in
1st d c, s c between next 2 d c, work 4 d c shells across row ending
with s c in center of last d c group, 2 d c in top of turning ch, ch 1,
turn. SHAPE CAP: 6th ROW: Sl st across 1st 5 sts, s c in next space,
work 4 d c shells across row ending with s c in center of last shell
turn—5 (6) shells. 7th ROW: Ch 3, d c in 1st s c, s c in center of next
shell, work 4 d c shells across row ending with 2 d c in last s c, ch 1,
turn. 8th ROW: S c in 1st d c, work 4 d c shells across row ending with
s c in top of turning ch, turn. 9th ROW: Ch 3, s c in center of next
shell, work shells across row ending with d c in last s c, ch 1, turn.
10th ROW: Sl st in next s c, ch 3, d c in same space, s c in center of
next shell, work 3 (4) shells, ending with 2 d c in last s c, ch 1,
turn. NEXT ROW: Sl st to center of next shell, s c in same space, work 2
(3) shells, then sl st to end of row, cut yarn.

FINISHING: Block each section. Sew shoulder seams. Sew sleeves in
position. Sew side and sleeve seams. With White, right side facing, beg
at top of right back opening, work 1 round of s c around back opening
and neck edge working 3 s c in each corner. Work 1 row of s c along
right back opening only making 3 buttonholes as follows: ch 2, skip 1 s
c for each buttonhole. With matching color, right side facing, work 1
round of s c around lower edge and sleeve edges. Sew buttons in
position.


                          BOY’S SWEATER & CAP

                                               _as illustrated on page 5_

  Size: 2 and 4 years
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK”
  KNITTING WORSTED SIZE or
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  6 (6) ozs. White
  2 (2) ozs. each Flame and Navy
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 6 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  6 Brass Buttons
  1 inch wide Grosgrain Ribbon
  GAUGE: 5 sts and 7 rows = 1 inch
        (stockinette st)

Directions are given for size 2. Changes for size 4 given in
parentheses.

BACK: With Navy cast on 58 (63) sts. Beg with P row, work in stockinette
st (P 1 row, K 1 row) for 13 rows, ending with P row. Cut Navy, attach
White, continuing in stockinette st work 4 rows, cut White. Attach Flame
and work 4 rows, cut Flame. Attach White, and work even until 6½ (7½)
inches from beg including 1 inch hem, ending with P row.

SHAPE RAGLAN ARMHOLES: Bind off 3 sts at beg of next 2 rows. NEXT ROW
(right side): K 1, sl 1 as if to K, K 1, p.s.s.o., K to last 3 sts, K 2
tog, K 1. P next row. Repeat last 2 rows 13 (14) times—24 (27) sts.
Place sts on holder. RIGHT FRONT: With Navy cast on 37 (39) sts. Work
same as back to underarm, ending with K row. SHAPE NECK AND ARMHOLE:
Bind off 3 sts at beg of row for armhole, work across. NEXT ROW: Bind
off 10 sts at beg of row, work across to last 3 sts, K 2 tog, K 1.
Continue to dec at armhole edge same as back armhole 13 (14) times; AT
THE SAME TIME, at neck edge, dec 1 st every 4th row 6 (7) times—4 sts
remain. Place remaining 4 sts on holder. Place markers for buttons
evenly spaced on right front edge, 1st button ½ inch below neck edge,
and last button in center of 1st White stripe.

LEFT FRONT: Work same as right front, reversing shaping and working
buttonholes opposite markers.

BUTTONHOLES: Beg at front edge, P 2, bind off 2 sts, P next 9 sts, bind
off 2 sts, work across. On next row cast on 2 sts over bound-off sts.

SLEEVES: With Navy cast on 34 (36) sts. Work stripes same as back, inc 1
st each edge every 2 inches 3 times—40 (42) sts. Work even until sleeve
measures 10 (11) inches from beg including 1 inch hem, or desired length
to underarm, ending with P row. SHAPE RAGLAN: Work same as back until 6
sts remain. Place 6 sts on holder.

FINISHING: Block each section. Sew raglan seams to back and fronts. Sew
side and sleeve seams. Turn 1 inch hem at lower edge and sleeve edges.
Sew in place.

COLLAR: Wrong side facing, attach White at beg of V shaping, pick up and
K 15 (16) sts across front neck edge, 4 sts from holder, 6 sts from
sleeve holder, 24 (27) sts across back neck, 6 sts from sleeve, 4 sts
from front, pick up and K 15 (16) sts across other front neck edge—74
(79) sts. NEXT ROW: P across. INC ROW: Inc in 1st st, K 20 (21) sts, inc
in each of next 2 sts, K 27 (30) sts, inc in each of next 2 sts, K 20
(21) sts, inc in next st, K last st—6 sts inc. NEXT ROW: P across, drop
White. Continue to work in stockinette st inc 1 st at beg and end of
every K row, working 4 rows Flame, 4 rows White, 6 rows Navy. NEXT 6
ROWS: Working with Navy, dec 1 st at beg of each row, drop Navy.
Continuing to dec at beg of each row, with White P 1 row, then work in K
1, P 1 ribbing for 8 rows. Bind off. Turn collar to wrong side, weave
each short edge and sew in place.

Face buttonholes with Grosgrain ribbon. Cut buttonholes in ribbon and
work buttonhole st around each buttonhole. Sew buttons in place.




                             A Rosy Future


                           CROCHETED BABY SET

  Size: 6 months to 1 year
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN or
  “DAWN” ORLON
  7-1 oz. skeins Baby Pink
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size E OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  2 yds. narrow ribbon
  2½ yds. ½ inch ribbon and 5 buttons
  GAUGE: 1 shell picot = ½ inch


                                 JACKET

STARTING AT LOWER EDGE * ch 5, d c in 4th ch from hook (shell), repeat
from * until there are 40 shells. 2nd ROW: Ch 2, sc in 2nd ch from hook,
* ch 5, sl st in 5th ch from hook for picot, ch 1, s c in free ch
between next 2 shells, repeat from * across row, ch 2, turn. 3rd ROW: S
c in 1st sc, * 2 d c in same st, hold picot to front of work (right
side), s c in next s c, repeat from * across row. 4th ROW: Ch 2, s c in
1st s c, * ch 5, sl st in 5th ch from hook, ch 1, s c in s c between
next 2 shells, repeat from * across row. Repeat 3rd and 4th rows until
section measures 7 inches or desired length to underarm ending with 4th
pattern row. Divide for YOKE in next row.

RIGHT FRONT: 1 s c in 1st s c, * 1 s c on each side of picot holding
picot to front, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * 8 times (27 s c), ch 2,
turn. NEXT 2 ROWS: Working in back loop of each st, work 1 s c in each s
c, ch 2 at end of last row to turn. NEXT ROW: Work 1 d c in each s c.
Continue in pattern as established for yoke (3 rows s c, 1 row d c)
until yoke measures 2¼ inches ending at armhole edge.

SHAPE NECK: Work in pattern over next 17 sts, ch 2, turn. Work in
established pattern over 17 sts until yoke measures 3½ inches, cut yarn.

BACK: Skip 2 picots for underarm, attach yarn in next s c, work 1 s c in
same st, work in yoke pattern over next 18 picots (54 s c) and until
yoke has same number of rows as front yoke, cut yarn.

LEFT FRONT: Skip 2 picots for underarm, attach yarn and work to
correspond to right front reversing shaping at neckline, cut yarn. Sl st
shoulders tog through back loops matching sts.

SLEEVES: * Ch 5, d c in 4th ch from hook, repeat from * until there are
14 shells. Work in picot and shell pattern until sleeve measures 6½
inches ending with picot row, ch 2, turn. NEXT ROW: 1 s c on each side
of each picot (28 s c), ch 2, turn. Work in yoke pattern for 5 rows, cut
yarn.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

                                             _continuation from page 15_

FINISHING: With right side facing attach yarn at neck edge of left
front, work 1 s c in each row down front to corner, 3 s c in corner, 2 s
c in each shell and 1 s c in s c between shells across lower edge, 3 s c
in corner of right front, 1 s c in each row up right front to neck edge,
ch 2, turn. NEXT 2 ROWS: Working in back loop of each st work 1 s c in
each s c working 3 s c in corner st of each front. NEXT ROW: 1 d c in
back loop of each s c down right front to center st at corner, ch 2,
turn. Work 3 more rows of s c on right front working in back loop of
sts, cut yarn. Attach yarn in center st of left front edge at corner and
complete same as right front, do not cut yarn. Work a sl st in each st
all around entire jacket, cut yarn.

COLLAR: Attach yarn at center of right front at neck edge, starting with
picot row work 20 picots evenly spaced to center of left front. Work in
picot and shell pattern for 8 rows, work s c across short end of collar,
cut yarn. Attach yarn at neck edge and work s c across short end of
collar to correspond, cut yarn.

FINISHING: Mark either side for 5 evenly spaced buttons. Sew buttons in
position. Button between corresponding 2 d c of other side. Sew sleeve
seams to within 1 shell at underarm. Sew sleeves in position.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                                  CAP

Work 22 shells same as jacket. Work in picot and shell pattern until
there are 5 picot rows (turnback), ch 2, turn. NEXT ROW: Working in back
loop of sts 1 s c in 1st s c, * 1 s c on each side of picot, 1 s c in s
c between picots, repeat from * to end of row. NEXT 3 ROWS: 1 s c in
each st. NEXT ROW: 1 d c in each s c. Repeat last 4 rows until cap
measures 5½ inches from turnback. Fold cap in half and sl st tog
matching sts, cut yarn.

FINISHING: Fold turnback in place, working through both thicknesses
attach yarn and work 1 s c in each s c row around entire cap
(approximately 50 s c). NEXT 2 ROWS: Working in back loop, 1 s c in each
s c. NEXT ROW: Work 1 d c in each st. NEXT ROW: Sl st around entire cap,
cut yarn. Lace ribbon through d c row. Finish with ribbon ties.


                                MITTENS

CUFF: Work 12 shells same as jacket. Continue in picot and shell rows
until there are 4 shell rows, ch 2, turn.

BEADING: Working in back loop, d c in 1st s c, * 2 d c in next s c
between shells, repeat from * to end of row (26 sts), ch 2, turn. NEXT 3
ROWS: 1 s c in each st. NEXT ROW: 1 d c in each s c. Repeat last 4 rows
until section measures 2¼ inches from beading. NEXT ROW: * 1 s c in next
st, skip 1 st, repeat from * across row, cut yarn leaving a 12 inch
length. Thread into needle, draw sts tog at top. Sew side seam. Lace
ribbon through beading.


                                BOOTIES

CUFF: Work same as mitten. Work beading row, ch 2, turn. NEXT ROW: 1 s c
in each of the next 13 sts, ch 9, work 1 s c in 3rd ch from hook, 1 s c
in each remaining st of ch, 1 s c in each st to end of row. NEXT ROW:
Working in back loop of sts 1 s c in each of the next 20 sts, 5 s c in
turning ch, 20 s c on other side to correspond. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in each
s c (45 s c). NEXT ROW: 1 d c in each st. Work in yoke pattern for 7
rows, fold bootie in half, sl st through both sides matching sts, cut
yarn. Sew back seam. Lace ribbon through beading.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

             CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  Chain                           Ch
  Single Crochet                  S c
  Short Double Crochet            S d c
  Double Crochet                  D c
  Treble Crochet                  Tr c
  Double Treble Crochet           D tr c
  Treble Treble Crochet           Tr tr c
  Double Knot St                  d knot st
  Single Knot St                  s knot st
  Slip Stitch                     Sl st
  Stitch                          St
  Stitches                        Sts
  Between                         Bet

*(Asterisk) This symbol indicates that the instructions immediately
      following are to be repeated the given number of times plus the
      original.

**Are used in the same way.




                       Buttercup and Cornflowers


                            KNITTED BABY SET

  Size: 6 months
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” NYLON or
  DAWN “WINTUK” BABY YARN
  4—1 oz. skeins Buttercup
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  3½ yds. ⅜ inch Yellow Ribbon
  1 yd. ¾ inch Yellow Ribbon
  GAUGE: 6 sts: 1 inch (pattern st)


                                 SACQUE

BACK: Cast on 65 sts. K 1 row.

START PATTERN: 1st ROW (right side): K 1, * yo, K 3, yo, K 1, repeat
from * across row. 2nd ROW: P across row. 3rd ROW: K 1, * K 1, sl 1 as
if to K, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., K 2, repeat from * across row. 4th ROW: P
across. Repeat these 4 rows for pattern. Work even in pattern until 6
inches from beg ending with 1st pattern row. SHAPE UNDERARM: Bind off 6
sts at beg of next 2 rows—57 sts. Place sts on holder.

LEFT FRONT: Cast on 37 sts. Work same as back to underarm ending with
2nd pattern row. Bind off 6 sts for underarm, work across—33 sts. Place
sts on holder.

RIGHT FRONT: Cast on 37 sts. Work same as back to underarm ending with
1st pattern row. Bind off 6 sts (count yo as st for underarm) work
across. Work 1 row even (3rd pattern row)—33 sts. Place sts on holder.

SLEEVES: (Make 2). Cast on 37 sts. Work same as back until 6 inches from
beg ending with 1st pattern row. Bind off 6 sts counting yo as st at beg
of next 2 rows—29 sts. Place sts on holder.

JOIN SECTIONS: Remove sts from holders as follows: Right side facing,
place 33 right front sts, 29 sleeve sts, 57 back sts, 29 sleeve sts, 33
left front sts on needle—181 sts. NEXT ROW: Beg at left front edge,
working 4th pat row, P across 32 sts, P 2 tog, P across 27 sts, P 2 tog,
P across 55 sts, P 2 tog, P across 27 sts, P 2 tog, P remaining sts—177
sts. Work 3 more complete patterns.

YOKE: DEC ROW: Work in seed st as follows: * K 1, P 1, K 1, P 2 tog,
repeat from * across row ending with K 2 tog—141 sts. NEXT ROW: K 1, * P
1, K 1, * across row. Repeat last row 6 times, ending on wrong side.
NEXT 4 ROWS: Work 1 complete pattern. 2nd DEC ROW: * K 1, P 1, K 1, P 2
tog, repeat from * across row ending with K 1-113 sts. NEXT 7 ROWS: K 1,
* P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. NEXT 4 ROWS: Work 1 complete
pattern. 3rd DEC ROW: Repeat 1st dec row ending with K 1, P 1, K 1. NEXT
ROW: K 1, * P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. Bind off as follows: * K
in front of 1st st, leave st on needle, K in back of same st, then sl
1st st over 2nd st, bind off next st, repeat from * across row.

FINISHING: Sew side and sleeve seams, sew underarms tog. Fold ¼ inch of
front edge to wrong side, and sew in place. Lace ribbon through patterns
in yoke as illustrated.


                                  CAP

Cast on 53 sts, work in seed st for 1¼ inches for front band. Work in
pattern until 6 inches from beg ending with 2nd pattern row. NEXT 2
ROWS: Working in pattern bind off 16 sts at beg of each row—21 sts.
Continue in pattern until center piece measures 2½ inches, ending with
2nd pattern row. Bind off in pattern. Sew both seams for back of cap.
NECK EDGE: Right side facing, attach yarn at beg of pattern row leaving
seed st section free, pick up and K 69 sts across lower edge of cap
leaving other end of seed st section free. Work in seed st for 5 rows.
NEXT 4 ROWS: Work 1 complete pattern. Work 2 more rows in seed st. Bind
off same as neck edge of sacque. Lace ribbon through pattern at lower
edge. Finish with rosettes.

                                             _continuation from page 18_


                                BOOTIES

Cast on 42 sts, and work K 1, P 1 across row. NEXT ROW: P 1, K 1 across
15 sts and place these 15 sts on holder, work across next 12 sts in seed
st for instep, place remaining 15 sts on another holder. Work across 12
sts of instep for 1¼ inches ending on wrong side, cut yarn. Sl sts from
1st holder to needle, attach yarn and pick up 10 sts on side of instep,
work across 12 sts of instep, pick up 10 sts on other side of instep,
and work 15 sts from 2nd st holder—62 sts. Work even in seed st for 1¼
inches. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at beg and end of row and 2 sts at center.
NEXT ROW: Work even. Repeat last 2 rows twice. Bind off.

UPPER SECTION: On cast-on sts, right side facing, pick up and K 41 sts.
NEXT ROW: P across. Work 3 complete patterns. Bind off same as sacque.
Sew sole and back seams. Lace ribbon through 1st pattern row.


                                MITTENS

Cast on 41 sts, and work in seed st for 2¼ inches. DEC ROW: K 1, P 1
across 8 sts, K 2 tog, P 2 tog, work across next 16 sts, K 2 tog, P 2
tog, work across. NEXT ROW: Work even in seed st. DEC ROW: K 1, P 1
across 7 sts, P 2 tog, K 2 tog, work across next 14 sts, P 2 tog, K 2
tog, work across. NEXT ROW: Work even in seed st, cut yarn leaving a
length. Draw sts tightly tog. Fasten off. CUFF: On cast-on sts right
side facing, pick up and K 41 sts. Finish same as booties. Sew seams.
Lace ribbon through 1st pattern.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                          Kids around the Town


                             CHILD’S DRESS

  Sizes: 2 and 4 years
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” SPORT YARN SIZE
  3—2 oz. skeins Navy
  1—2 oz. skeins Watermelon
  1—2 oz. skeins Gold
  Circular Knitting Needle No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLE WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  1 Set Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 4
  GAUGE: 13 sts = 2 inches

With Navy cast on 168 (180) sts, join, being careful not to twist sts,
place a marker at beg of each round. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 5
rounds for hem. Work in stockinette st (K each round) for 8 rounds, drop
Navy. START PATTERN: 1st ROUND: With Watermelon, K 1 round, drop
Watermelon. Pick up Navy. NEXT 2 ROUNDS: K 5, sl 1, repeat from beg all
around, drop Navy. Pick up Watermelon. 4th ROUND: K 1 round, drop
Watermelon. 5th and 6th ROUNDS: With Navy, * sl 1, K 3, sl 1, K 1,
repeat from * all around. 7th ROUND: With Watermelon, K 1 round. 8th and
9th ROUNDS: With Navy, K 1, * sl 1, K 1, sl 1, K 3, repeat from * all
around ending with K 2. 10th ROUND: With Watermelon, K 1 round. 11th and
12th ROUNDS: With Navy, K 2, * sl 1, K 5, repeat from * all around
ending with K 3. NEXT 4 ROUNDS: With Navy, K each round. 17th ROUND:
Attach Gold, * K 1 Gold, K 1 Navy, repeat from * all around. 18th ROUND:
K 1 Navy, K 1 Gold, repeat from beg all around. 19th ROUND: Repeat 17th
round. NEXT 4 ROUNDS: With Navy K each round. Repeat from 1st round for
stripe pattern twice, then work until 12th pattern row is completed.
Discontinue stripe pattern. Remainder of dress is worked with Navy. If
longer length desired, with Navy K each round until desired length to
underarm. DEC ROUND: K 4, K 2 tog, repeat from beg all around—140 (150)
sts. DIVIDE FOR BACK AND FRONT: Place next 70 (75) sts on holder for
front.

BACK: SHAPE ARMHOLES: Working back and forth with circular needle and in
stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) bind off 4 sts at beg of next 2 rows.
Dec 1 st each end every other row twice—58 (63) sts. Work even until
armholes measure 4 (4¾) inches. SHAPE SHOULDER: Bind off 9 sts at beg of
next row, work across until 9 sts are on right needle, place next 22
(27) sts on holder, attach another skein of yarn, work across remaining
18 sts. Working both sides at same time bind off 9 sts for other
shoulder; then 9 sts from each shoulder edge once.

FRONT: Work same as back until armholes measure 3½ (4¼) inches. SHAPE
NECK: Work across 20 sts, place next 18 (23) sts on holder, attach
another skein of yarn, work across remaining 20 sts. Working both sides
at same time, dec 1 st at each neck edge every other row twice—18 sts.
Work even until armholes measure same as back. Shape shoulder same as
back.

SLEEVES: With Navy cast on 34 (38) sts. Work in stockinette st inc 1 st
at beg and end of row every inch 6 times—46 (50) sts. Work even until
sleeve measures 9 (10) inches from beg including 1 inch hem, or desired
length to underarm. SHAPE CAP: Bind off 4 sts at beg of next 2 rows. Dec
1 st each side every row 6 times. Bind off 2 sts at beg of next 6 rows.
Bind off remaining sts.

FINISHING: Sew shoulder and sleeve seams. Sew sleeves in position.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

MOCK TURTLE: With right side facing and dpn, attach yarn at left
shoulder seam at neck edge, pick up and K 14 sts along left side of
neck, K 18 (23) sts from front st holder, pick up and K 14 sts on other
side of neck, K 22 (27) sts from back st holder. Work in K 1, P 1
ribbing for 3 inches. Bind off loosely. Fold to wrong side, and sew in
place. Turn up 1 inch hem at lower edge and sleeve edges, and sew in
place. Block to A line, 11 (12) inches across at underarm, and 16 (17)
inches across lower edge.


                              CHILD’S SUIT

  Sizes: 2 and 4 years
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” SPORT YARN SIZE
  2 (2)—2 oz. skeins Flame
  2 (2)—2 oz. skeins Navy
  1—2 oz. skein White
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 and Circular Needle No. 4 (16 inch
          length) OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE
          BELOW
  ½ yd. elastic
  GAUGE: 13 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for size 2. Changes for size 4 are given in
parentheses.


                                 PANTS

BACK: Starting at crotch with Navy and straight needles cast on 19 (21)
sts. P 1 row. Work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) casting on 2 sts
at end of every row until there are 47 (53) sts on needle. Then cast on
3 sts at end of every row until there are 71 (77) sts on needle. Work
even until back measures 10 (11) inches from center of crotch or length
desired. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for ¾ inch ending on right side of
work. K 1 row on wrong side for turning ridge. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing
for ¾ inch. Bind off.

FRONT: Work same as back.

FINISHING: Block each section. Weave side seams. LEG BANDS: With right
side facing, pick up and K 70 (76) sts across each leg. Work in K 1, P 1
ribbing for ¾ inch. Bind off. Weave back and front at crotch. Fold
waistline at turning ridge and sew to wrong side leaving a ½ inch
opening. Draw elastic through waistline and adjust to size.

                                             _continuation from page 23_


                                SWEATER

  Color A: Flame (Main Color)
  Color B: Navy
  Color C: White

BACK AND FRONTS: With A and circular needle, cast on 144 (156) sts. Work
in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 1 inch, place a marker at beg of each round.
NEXT 8 ROUNDS: Work in stockinette st (K each round). Then work in
pattern same as dress on page 16 substituting Flame for Navy; Navy for
Watermelon and White for Gold, but repeat stripe pattern once; then work
until 12th pattern row is completed. Discontinue pattern. Work even with
A until 8 or 9 inches from beg or desired length to underarm. DIVIDE FOR
FRONT AND BACK: With A, bind off 4 sts, work across until 68 (74) sts
are on needle from bind-off. Place remaining 74 (78) sts on holder for
Front. NEXT ROW: Working with straight needles and in stockinette st (K
1 row, P 1 row), bind off 4 sts for opposite armhole, then dec 1 st each
side every other row twice—60 (66) sts. Work even until armholes measure
4 (4¾) inches above beg of armhole shaping. SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 9
(10) sts at beg of next 4 rows. Place remaining 24 (26) sts on holder
for back of neck.

FRONT: Work same as back until armholes measure 3¼ (3½) inches. SHAPE
NECK: Work across 20 (22) sts, place next 20 (22) sts on holder for
center neck, attach another skein of yarn, and work across remaining 20
(22) sts. Working both sides at same time, dec 1 st at each neck edge
every other row twice. Work even until armholes measure same as back.
Shape shoulders same as back.

SLEEVES: With A and straight needles, cast on 34 (40) sts. Work in K 1,
P 1 ribbing for 1 inch. Work in stockinette st inc 1 st each side every
inch 6 times—46 (52) sts. Work even until sleeve measures 9 (11) inches
from beg, or desired length to underarm. SHAPE CAP: Bind off 4 sts at
beg of next 2 rows. Dec 1 st each side every row 6 times. Bind off 2 sts
at beg of next 6 rows. Bind off remaining sts.

FINISHING: Block each section. Weave shoulder and sleeve seams. Sew
sleeves in position. TURTLE NECK COLLAR: With circular needle and A,
right side facing, pick up and K 12 (13) sts across side of neck edge, K
20 (22) sts from holder, pick up and K 12 (13) sts on other neck edge, K
24 (26) sts from back holder—68 (74) sts. Place a marker at beg of each
round, and work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 3 inches. Bind off. Fold collar
over.


                                  CAP

With White cast on 6 sts. P 1 row. NEXT ROW: Inc in each st—12 sts. P 1
row. NEXT ROW: Inc 1 st, K 1, repeat from beg across row—18 sts. P 1
row. NEXT ROW: Inc 1 st, K 2, repeat from beg across row—24 sts. P 1
row. Continue to inc 6 sts in each K row, always having 1 more K st
between incs until there are 72 (78) sts. Work even in stockinette st
for 1 (1½) inches, cut White. Attach Flame and work 6 rows, cut Flame.
Attach White and work 6 rows, cut White. Attach Navy and work 7 rows,
then work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 7 rows. NEXT 2 ROWS: Bind off 22 (25)
sts at beg of each row. UNDERSIDE OF PEAK: Bind off 3 sts at beg of next
6 rows. Bind off remaining 10 sts. Sew back seam, turn hem to wrong
side, cut plastic in shape of visor, insert plastic and sew peak in
place.

            KNITTING ABBREVIATIONS

  Knit                  K
  Purl                  P
  Stitch                St
  Yarn Over             YO
  Decrease              Dec.
  Increase              Inc.
  Together              Tog.
  Round                 Rnd.
  Pass slip st over     P.s.s.o.
  Horizontal yarn       Strand between sts


[1]DUPONT CERTIFICATION MARK FOR YARNS MEETING ITS FIBER CONTENT
    SPECIFICATIONS




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text; several whole pages were relocated.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 220: BABIES ARE SUCH
FUN TO DRESS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
